---
title: '17. Satan and Sin'
tags: ['Towards-Allah']
slug: '17-satan-and-sin'

date: 2024-06-30 19:30:00
---

Satan is our greatest enemy. Congratulations to all because we are living in an era where everyone is in the biggest war against him. He is the most powerful enemy, yet his attack is weak. His power lies only in influencing our thoughts. We are superior to him. We’ve always thought we are weak, but no, he is weak. Allah has given us such powerful weapons that if we use them, his attacks will be destroyed.

Allah has given us the power of knowledge. When he attacks, we must use that knowledge to realize how truly weak he is. We don’t realize who we are. One side of this war is fascinating—full of strategy, defense, and counter-attacks. He plans, he attacks, and we stop him. This war is intense and captivating. But on the other side, it’s terrifying. Just one small mistake, one open door, and he can enter our castle and destroy our iman and all our efforts.

He knows us well, but we are often unaware of his attacks and unaware of the tools we possess to defend ourselves. First, we need to become aware of when he is attacking. He usually strikes when we are not in a state of iman, when we’re committing sins. But when we sin, and our awareness and knowledge fade, we can regain them by repenting and returning to righteousness.

Second, we must know our tools. Start with sabr, then tawakkul, then taqwa, followed by conscious observation. If all else fails and we are hit, use the revival kit of taubah to return and heal.

Third, we must be aware of his attacks because most of the time, we don’t even realize he’s attacking us. In fact, he’s not just influencing you; he’s influencing everyone around you, making everything seem normal.

[[18. Unconsious Sins]]
