---
title: '11. Gamble of life.md'
tags: ['Towards-Allah']
slug: '11-gamble-of-life'
date: 2024-06-30 19:30:00
---

I see people aged 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 65, and older. I questioned: If a 65-year-old sinner repents now, saying only, "Astaghfirullah Rabbi Min Kulli Zambin Wa Atubu Ilaih", will he also enter Jannah? Even though he spent his entire life indulging in worldly pleasures, committing sins, and enjoying luxuries? At the same time, there is a poor person who lived in obedience to Allah throughout his life, without even a single proper meal, never experiencing any worldly pleasure, and committing no sins. Will both of them end up in Jannah? Is this fair?

When I observed older people, I found that out of 100, 50% are still immersed in sins with no sign of returning to Allah or seeking forgiveness. Out of the remaining 50%, around 40% are engaged in worship but are filled with arrogance and pride about their knowledge, blindly following religion without understanding its essence or the purpose of life. They don’t truly know Allah; they simply follow societal trends and cults. Only 10% out of these people actually get the opportunity to repent, seek Allah sincerely, and tread the right path. Out of this 10%, merely 2-3% truly fulfill the purpose of being human.

So, if you’re thinking, "I will repent tomorrow," the opportunity cost is so immense. The gamble of life you’re playing is highly playful, you don’t know in which percentage you’ll fall into.

I see people who dedicate their lives to remembering and studying Allah, applying it to their lives, and teaching others. Even if they live to 90 or 100 years, their minds remain intellectual and devoted. Warna tu humne 50 ka baad hi log khisakte dakhy hn...

[[12. Spiritual Healing and Mental Turmoil]]
