---
title: '6. We are all becoming increasingly agnostic to ourselves'
tags: ['Towards-Allah']
slug: '6-we-are-all-becoming-increasingly-agnostic-to-ourselves'
date: 2024-08-16 22:45:00
---

We are all becoming increasingly agnostic to ourselves. Out of 24 hours, for 23 hours, our minds are in a fog, constantly spinning with random thoughts—thinking about the future and the past, never focusing on the present moment. We don’t pause to reflect, 'Why am I here?' We don’t even take five minutes to sit in silence and question ourselves: What am I doing? Why am I here? It feels like someone has placed us on a train with some food, without explaining why we are on that train, where it's headed, or how we move through air and walk on land.

Why is the carbon layer so precisely positioned that if it were just 0.1 cm farther, the Earth would freeze, and 0.1 cm closer, the Earth would burn? DNA contains vast amounts of information, and information requires intelligence. Where does that information come from? Whose intelligence is behind it?

Surah Yaseen, chapter number multiple with its total verses 36\*83=2988 Equals to Surah Yaseen letters. Is all of this just a coincidence? If not, then I realize that everything has a purpose. There’s no single material in this world without purpose, so why would I be here without one? I must also have a purpose. But what is it?

In 100 years, I will die, and no one will know I ever existed. It feels like I am born, then I die, with a brief time frame in between. Social media and the constant reels have made us slaves to short-term dopamine hits, destroying our ability to think deeply. We don’t think anymore; we just wake up, follow a routine, and sleep, stuck in an infinite loop of mental fog. We feel like we know everything, but in reality, we know nothing.

Pray to Allah Almighty to take us out of this mental fog and guide us. Also, ask Allah to give us the ability to make dua because one of the biggest effects of this fogged mind is that we don’t even pray for ourselves. We see this effect in the masjid—when the imam is leading the prayer, but our minds are elsewhere, just rushing to finish.

So, make dua for the ability to make dua. May Allah guide us all, Ameen

[[7. Conditioning process of brain]]
