---
title: '9. Delulu is Solulu.md'
tags: ['Towards-Allah']
slug: '9-delulu-is-solulu'
date: 2024-09-29 13:25:00
---

I heard the phrase "Delulu is Solulu," a Gen Z slang. Gen Z is really astonishing, like we can’t even imagine. I searched about it and found out that it means "only a person with a delusional mindset is the solution for you," referring to the other partner. What’s more surprising is that someone said, "Jhinga lalla Huhu" 😂😂.

The key point here is that social media continuously bombards us through Instagram reels, music, dramas, games, anime, cartoons, series, novels, different vibes, and the idea of being cool, all pushing us to become delusional and escape reality. There are popular slogans like "life is bitter, and we can’t face it," encouraging people to avoid facing reality. But Islam is totally opposite to that. The Quran begins with the line, "This is the truth, without a doubt." It means the Quran always emphasizes certainty, like with the word Inna or Beshak—no single doubt; that’s the reality.

We see this emphasis on truth throughout Islam. Non-Muslims in the era of the Arabs were delusional, assuming their idols would intercede for them. They lived in their own delusional world. Just like Christians assume Jesus is God, and the Israelites believe that if they regain the throne of Solomon, they will rule the world. Similarly, in today’s era, everyone has created their own delusional mindset and is living in it.

But on the opposite side, Allah emphasizes living in reality. The biggest impact of these delusions is that when we escape from reality and live in our own mindset, it indirectly affects our beliefs and faith. Because the Day of Judgment is reality, the Q/A session in the grave is reality, Jahannam is reality. When we avoid facing these realities, it indirectly weakens our beliefs. That’s why people just believe in these things but don’t act upon them. And this indirectly affects our trust in Allah—that He will guide us through these harsh realities.

So, we need to accept the facts and face reality, stepping out of the delusional world. When we face these realities, it strengthens our belief in many things and builds our trust in Allah Almighty.

[[10. Split personality disorder in gen z,alpha]]
