Humans, can we ever imagine that 100 years ago I did not exist, and after 100 years I will not exist? Then what is that? How am I here? Why am I here? Why do I not remain a child forever? Why am I growing? Why do people die? If I am here to live, then why will I die? If I will die, then why was life given to me?

Look at single atoms to celestial objects; everything has a shape, design, stability, regularity, uniformity, and purpose. If anything has a design, it has a purpose. My socks have a design, they have a purpose. My belt has a design, it has a purpose. So is the design of my body not more complex, more organized, and more stable than a sock? Then what is my purpose? What is the explanation for all that? It is like a person going into a company; he does not know who the boss is, why he is there, or what he has to do. He just goes, sits, eats, drinks, and comes back.

And ponder: when there is information, there is intelligence behind it. We have DNA; it has information. Every atom has information to only contain that atom. From where did this information come? What is the best explanation for that? The value of gravity, pi, and all laws of nature are stable, constant, and fixed. A single change would destroy everything. How did that happen? What is the inference or explanation for all this?
Something comes from something. Something cannot come from nothing. Possibilities exist only if particles exist. Then how did this whole stable, uniform, complete system of the world come from nothing? No possibility exists. What is the best explanation for that?

We see in the world that to achieve any purpose, we create a whole environment, and everything serves that purpose. In a school walls, offices, chairs, whiteboards, fans, electricity, canteen, teachers all exist to fulfill one purpose: students can learn.We see in the universe: the sun rises, the moon rises, flowers, sand, water, air, every rock to every cloud, even sand, we see, all are in the service of humans. What is the best explanation for that? When we are in difficult situations, why does our natural state call to some supreme power, and everyone subconsciously calls to Ilah?

Our mind, brain, rationality, and logic lead us to the point that there is only one force that exists self-sufficient, all-knowing, creator, initiator, all-powerful, with attributes. It is one, because no two mothers give birth to one soul; it is only one.
And He calls to humans: O humanity, I gave you intellect, logic, and mind to ponder, see, think, and observe My attributes. And He says: that one force that comes into your sense it is Me, Allah. 
So we see that our illah is allah  are created as evverything has been created and all other things of the world are in the survilance of humans , then it means that everything has been created for one that creation , so why everything has been created for humans , what humans have to do , what humans have to do a great task ? what the purpose of them ? 
The purpose of creation and why the life has given to us and wwhats the ppurpose of humans ? Allah subhana watal said inn quran 

ٱلَّذِى خَلَقَ ٱلْمَوْتَ وَٱلْحَيَوٰةَ لِيَبْلُوَكُمْ أَيُّكُمْ أَحْسَنُ عَمَلًۭا ۚ وَهُوَ ٱلْعَزِيزُ ٱلْغَفُورُ ٢

˹He is the One˺ Who created death and life in order to test which of you is best in deeds. And He is the Almighty, All-Forgiving (67:2) 
why the word death has been used first and why life after the death , beacuse in general life first then death comes actually in arabic if any word has stating letter laam it assigns that the purpose of previous word will be coming in the next phrase allah said i created life to testify whom is in best in deeds not greater in deeds Allah wants qualities not quantity , 
Also said allah 


وَمَا خَلَقْتُ ٱلْجِنَّ وَٱلْإِنسَ إِلَّا لِيَعْبُدُونِ ٥٦

I did not create jinn and humans except to worship Me.(51:56) 

word ibadad comes from root word abad meaning servant , tell me is servant has any its own desires or wills or he move through what he wants or what his boss what he will say he will obey without arguuing and tell me like you are hiring for a servant and he says i have to do that , i have that secudule like coffee gym launch clothes and job and that all my tasks i have to do , will you hire it as a servant, no , you want such a servant whom is fulfilling your command in his 24hrs of life whenever you will call him he will come out and say yes sir im here , 
muslim means to be submitted we are actually submitting ourselves to allah almighty , allah actually created whole universe to fulfill his command ( dean) to be applied on the body of the humans , 

إِنَّا جَعَلْنَا مَا عَلَى ٱلْأَرْضِ زِينَةًۭ لَّهَا لِنَبْلُوَهُمْ أَيُّهُمْ أَحْسَنُ عَمَلًۭا ٧

We have indeed made whatever is on earth as an adornment for it, in order to test which of them is best in deeds.(18:7) 
it means that attachment to the worldy means and fealing lust and all these things will be exist it has to be exist sahaba are not like angels they also feel attraction to dunyia attachment to the world but allah wants his ibad lives with creation he wants his ibad will be detached from creation and attach with the creater its a test , allah wants qualities from us and all qualities depens on one quality thats is la illah ill allah 