---
title: '3. We all have knowledge, not belief'
tags: ['Towards-Allah']
slug: '3-we-all-have-knowledge-not-belief'
date: 2024-06-30 19:30:00
---

I have been praying for many years, but why aren’t the hurdles in life slowing down? Why haven’t I found constant peace? Even though I haven’t committed any sins, I’ve prayed a lot, and I am close to Allah Almighty. Sometimes I feel like I should stop trying. These thoughts often surround us, and we lose hope in life. We say to ourselves, 'I will stop trying to improve myself because I know I won’t succeed.' And sometimes, we remember all the bad things that happened to us, from childhood until now. Whenever something goes wrong, we think, 'Yeh kyun mere sath hota hai? Why am I always the one?' and we lose the motivation to grow.

Let me tell you a story about a person who never had constant happiness in life, whose life was full of sorrows, yet he never stopped. A man who, before he was born, lost his father. When he was six, his mother died. A few years later, his grandfather died. After marriage, his first son died, then another. People stoned him, boycotted him for three years, his wife died, his own people became his enemies, forcing him to leave the city. He fought in battles, was wounded, lost his uncle, and then his daughter... But in all of this, he never said, 'Why is this happening to me? Why me?' Even though he was close to Allah Almighty, reaching the mukam of Mehmood.

He didn’t dwell on the past and say, 'These things happened to me, so I can’t move forward now.' Even though he never had constant happiness, and we can’t even imagine the burden on his heart, he still fulfilled his responsibility of prophecy so well that you and I are now Muslims. He didn’t say, 'This tragedy happened to me, so I won’t do my work for a few days, I’ll just dwell on it.' He always pushed himself forward with one magical power: his trust in Allah Almighty. He always had faith in Allah, something we lack.

If we study hard and score 2-3 marks lower than someone else, we start complaining, 'Ya Allah, maine zyada mehnat ki thi, phir usay zyada kyun diya?' In conclusion, whenever we face sorrow or problems, and we can’t see any solution, don’t lose hope. Push yourself up with tawakul and keep progressing. Lift yourself up because nothing will change unless you push yourself.

[[4. Hurdles are blessings]]
