---
title: '5. Nooron Ala Noor'
tags: ['Towards-Allah']
slug: '5-nooron-ala-noor'
date: 2024-08-24 06:30:00
---

When Allah created humans, He placed His divine light (Noor) in their hearts. Every human has this light in their heart, and Allah has given the example of this light as a lamp, surrounded by a glass that shines brightly, causing the light to increase. The example of ribs is given as a neesh that covers this light.

Allah also mentioned that the oil from which this lamp burns is very precious, like olive oil, which is neither from the East nor the West. This oil symbolizes guidance, and it is said to be blessed and pure. Just as when you place a flame against high-quality gasoline, it burns brightly. Allah then said, 'Noor upon Noor,' meaning that when Allah's light combines with this light in the heart, it creates an even more intense and glowing flame. And then Allah grants guidance to whomever He wills.

We observe this in our lives; whenever we hear guidance or the words of Allah, such as the Quran, our hearts are naturally drawn towards it. This is the condition we often find ourselves in during prayer when this light awakens. However, this light of guidance needs the Noor upon Noor to resonate with it; when it does, the heart, faith, and life itself change.

The glass around the lamp of the heart, the cleaner it is, the more it shines, and others benefit from it too. But if this glass becomes problematic, covered with the stains of sin and turns black, sometimes if the glass becomes too black, no light comes out, and may Allah protect us, no light enters either—this is very dangerous.

We need that sparkling Noor upon Noor on our heart's light that changes lives, just like it changed the lives of the companions of Prophet Muhammad. For example, when this light fell upon Abu Bakr, he immediately accepted it, and many others did too. This light comes from good company, a good environment, and the proper reading of the Quran and prayer.

[[6. We are all becoming increasingly agnostic to ourselves]]
